In this step, we will configure the AutoPilot rule for Postgres

### Step: Configure Autopilot Rule

Learn more about [working with AutoPilot Rules](https://2.2.docs.portworx.com/portworx-install-with-kubernetes/autopilot/how-to-use/working-with-rules/#understanding-an-autopilotrule) in the Portworx documentation.

Keep in mind, an AutoPilot Rule has 4 main parts.

* `Selector` Matches labels on the objects that the rule should monitor.
* `Namespace Selector` Matches labels on the Kubernetes namespaces the rule should monitor. This is optional, and the default is all namespaces.
* `Conditions` The metrics for the objects to monitor.
* `Actions` to perform once the metric conditions are met.

Below we target the Postgres PVC using an AutPilot Rule.

### View the AutoPilot Rule
```
cat pvc-resize-rule.yaml
```{{execute T1}}

Note that we are defining the `condition` and the `action` in which our Rule is activated. In our Rule we are defining when our volume is using `20%` of its total available capacity, then we grow the volume using the `openstorage.io.action.volume/resize` action by 200 percent. Normally, you would likely use a larger threshold for volume usage.

When your done reviewing the AutoPilot Rule, type ```clear```{{execute interrupt}} to ctrl-c and clear the screen.

### Create the AutoPilot Rule

> If you receive an error of `no matches for kind "AutopilotRule"` wait 1 minute and try again. AutoPilot installs in the background and if you clicked through this demo too fast it may not be ready just yet.

```
kubectl apply -f pvc-resize-rule.yaml
```{{execute T1}}

### Verify that AutoPilot initialized the Postgres PVC

```
watch kubectl get events --field-selector involvedObject.kind=AutopilotRule,involvedObject.name=auto-volume-resize --all-namespaces
```{{execute T1}}

Check to see that AutoPilot has recognized the PVC and initialized it. When the events show `transition from Initializing => Normal` for the Postgres PVC, AutoPilot is ready. Press ```clear```{{execute interrupt}} to ctrl-c and clear the screen.