In this step, we will deploy Zookeeper using a StatefulSet.

### Step: Create Zookeeper ConfigMap, PDB and Service

We will start by creating a [ConfigMap](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-pod-configmap/) to inject configuration data into our Zookeeper containers, a [PodDisruptionBudget](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/configure-pdb/) to limit the number of concurrent disruptions that Zookeeper application experiences when we do maintenance operations on Kubernetes nodes, and, finally, a [Service](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/) for Zookeeper so that Kafka can connect to the Zookeeper cluster.

First, let's look at all 3 of these configurations: ```cat zk-config.yaml``` and then let's create them using kubectl:
```
kubectl create -f zk-config.yaml
```{{execute T1}}

### Step: Deploy Zookeeper StatefulSet

A [StatefulSet](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/statefulset/) manages the deployment and scaling of a set of Pods , and provides guarantees about the ordering and uniqueness of these Pods. It also allows us to dynamically create Portworx volumes using a VolumeClaimTemplate.

Let's take a look at the StatefulSet for Zookeeper: ```cat zk-ss.yaml```{{execute T1}}. Note that the reference to our Zookeeper storage class in the VolumeClaimTemplate definition.

Now let's deploy Zookeeper:

```
kubectl create -f zk-ss.yaml
```{{execute T1}}

### Step: Verify that Zookeeper StatefulSet is finished initializing

The stateful set will create three pods (zk-0, zk-1, and zk-2). These pods will start in a controlled sequence so that the Zookeeper cluster can achieve quorum and elect a master. Please wait until all three pods are in Running state before continuing to the next step.

```
watch kubectl get pods
```{{execute T1}}

When all the 3 zk-* pods show STATUS Running and READY 1/1 then hit ```clear```{{execute interrupt}} to ctrl-c and clear the screen.

Finally, verify that the Zookeeper ensemble is working by creating and getting /foo:
```
kubectl exec zk-0 -- /opt/zookeeper/bin/zkCli.sh create /foo bar
kubectl exec zk-2 -- /opt/zookeeper/bin/zkCli.sh get /foo
```{{execute T1}}
