px-mariadb/5.mariadb-db.md, before:

In this step, we will initialize a sample database in our MySQL instance.

### Step: Open a shell inside the MariaDB container

Below commands exec into the MariaDB pod:

```
POD=`kubectl get pods -l app=mariadb | grep Running | grep 1/1 | awk '{print $1}'`
kubectl exec -it $POD bash
```{{execute T1}}

Next we can launch the mariadb mysql utility and show existing databases, including pxdemo which we defined in our spec.
```
mysql --password=$MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD
show databases;
exit
```{{execute T1}}

### Step: Run mariadbslap to create some tables

MySQL has a diagnostic program, [msyqlslap](https://dev.mariadb.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/mariadbslap.html) designed to emulate client load for a MySQL server and to report the timing of each stage. We're going to use it to create some tables and do a quick performance test.
```
mariadbslap --create-schema=pxdb --create="CREATE TABLE a (b int)" \
--query="INSERT INTO a VALUES (RAND())" \
--concurrency=1000 --iterations=1 --password=mariadb123 --no-drop
```{{execute T1}}

Take a look at the tables and exit out of the container.
```
mysql --password=$MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD
show databases;
use pxdb;
show tables;
select count(*) from a;
exit
exit
```{{execute T1}}

Commit message:

fixed mariasdb password and maria-dbslap

px-mariadb/5.mariadb-db.md, after:

In this step, we will initialize a sample database in our MySQL instance.

### Step: Open a shell inside the MariaDB container

Below commands exec into the MariaDB pod:

```
POD=`kubectl get pods -l app=mariadb | grep Running | grep 1/1 | awk '{print $1}'`
kubectl exec -it $POD bash
```{{execute T1}}

Next we can launch the mariadb mysql utility and show existing databases, including pxdemo which we defined in our spec.
```
mysql --password=$MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD
show databases;
exit
```{{execute T1}}

### Step: Run mariadbslap to create some tables

MariaDB has a diagnostic program, [mariadb-slap](https://mariadb.com/kb/en/library/mariadb-slap/)) designed to emulate client load for a MySQL server and to report the timing of each stage. We're going to use it to create some tables and do a quick performance test.
```
mariadb-mariadb-slap --create-schema=pxdb --create="CREATE TABLE a (b int)" \
--query="INSERT INTO a VALUES (RAND())" \
--concurrency=1000 --iterations=1 --password=mariadb123 --no-drop
```{{execute T1}}

Take a look at the tables and exit out of the container.
```
mysql --password=$MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD
show databases;
use pxdb;
show tables;
select count(*) from a;
exit
exit
```{{execute T1}}
